README.md, before:

# png2ascii: lightning fast ASCII image generator

<img src="title.png">

png2ascii is a fast ASCII image generator written in C. It was made to be the fastest way to make ASCII versions of your favorite images.

### Why?

Good question. It's not like tools like this are hard to find, but it *is* hard to find one that doesn't make a mess of requiring external libraries, or one that actually performs quickly. png2ascii is lightweight and does only what it needs to do.

### Examples

<img src="cocacola.png">
<img src="seahawks.png">

### Features

  - Super fast PNG conversion to ASCII, tuned with KCachegrind for performance.
  - The LodePNG library is required for use and is included here. There are no external dependencies.
  - Size and image format conversion easily done with piping. See "Usage" below for details.
  

### Performance
png2ascii was designed for speed, which is a large reason why it was written in C. KCachegrind was used to squeeze as much performance out of the tool as possible. png2ascii is fast, converting a 10MP, 10.6MB PNG into ASCII in just over 1 second on an Intel Core M processor. Compare that to *45 seconds* for a comparable conversion with a Python utility. Though there's little reason you'd ever need to produce a single image that large, png2ascii can be used to batch convert frames to produce cool ASCII GIFs.

### Usage

- Run <code>make</code> at the command line to build the project with GCC.
- png2ascii expects a PNG file as its only argument and outputs the ASCII image to stdout.
- Images with a width greater than 100 pixels or so will be very large. It's easy to resize any image to the perfect size with ImageMagick's <code>convert</code>: <code>convert img.png -resize 80x80 out.png ; ./png2ascii out.png > out.txt</code>

### Version History
0.6.0
- Added alpha channel support

0.5.0
- Initial release

Commit message:

Updated README and fixed line spacing

README.md, after:

# png2ascii: lightning fast ASCII image generator

<img src="screenshots/title.png">

png2ascii is a fast ASCII image generator written in C. It was made to be the fastest way to make ASCII versions of your favorite images.

### Why?

Good question. It's not like tools like this are hard to find, but it *is* hard to find one that doesn't make a mess of requiring external libraries, or one that actually performs quickly. png2ascii is lightweight and does only what it needs to do.

### Examples

<img src="screenshots/cocacola.png">
<img src="screenshots/seahawks.png">

### Features

  - Super fast PNG conversion to ASCII, tuned with KCachegrind for performance.
  - The LodePNG library is required for use and is included here. There are no external dependencies.
  - Size and image format conversion easily done with another command line utility. See "Usage" below for details.
  

### Performance
png2ascii was designed for speed, which is a large reason why it was written in C. KCachegrind was used to squeeze as much performance out of the tool as possible. png2ascii is fast, converting a 10MP, 10.6MB PNG into ASCII in just over 1 second on an Intel Core M processor. Compare that to *45 seconds* for a comparable conversion with a Python utility. Though there's little reason you'd ever need to produce a single image that large, png2ascii can be used to batch convert frames to produce cool ASCII GIFs.

### Usage

- Run <code>make</code> at the command line to build the project with GCC.
- png2ascii expects a PNG file as its only argument and outputs the ASCII image to stdout.
- Images with a width greater than 100 pixels or so will be very large. It's easy to resize any image to the perfect size with ImageMagick's <code>convert</code>: <code>convert img.png -resize 80x80 out.png ; ./png2ascii out.png > out.txt</code>. True <code>|</code>code> isn't yet supported, because I'm not certain that LodePNG supports reading a PNG from stdin. I'm working on it.

### Version History

1.0.0 (8/16/15)
- Added alpha channel support

0.9.0 (8/16/15)
- Initial release
